{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12720\viewh7800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Princess Sumaya University for Technology\
## King Abdullah II Faculty of Engineering\
### Senior Design Projects\
\
---\
\
# Design and Implementation of an IoT-Based Smart Mobile Animal Housing System\
\
| **No** | **Details** |\
|---------|-------------|\
| **1** | **Advisor Name:** Dr. Rami Abdullah Wahsheh |\
| **2** | **Co-Advisor Name:** \'97 |\
| **3** | **Year / Semester:** First Semester 2025-2026 |\
| **4** | **Title of Senior Design Project:** Design and Implementation of an IoT-Based Smart Mobile Animal Housing System |\
| **5** | **Design to be Achieved:** <br><br> This project involves the design and implementation of an IoT-based smart mobile animal housing system that features a floorless structure and is equipped with solar-powered motorized wheels, enabling autonomous relocation to new sites each day with customizable settings. This design ensures that the animals have continuous access to fresh grass and a clean environment, while also preventing manure accumulation and promoting natural physical activity. <br><br> The system is designed to automatically manage smart lighting, ventilation fans, and environmental conditions within the housing. It can detect the time of day and motion, automatically turning on the lights when movement or human presence is detected. Additionally, the system features a smart entry porch that detects the presence of individuals at the door and prompts a secure password verification for entry. If the correct password is entered, the door unlocks automatically; otherwise, an intrusion alarm is triggered. <br><br> The system also includes an advanced intrusion detection mechanism, particularly monitoring the roof area, which activates a burglar alert in the event of unauthorized access. An optional automated water management function allows the control of a water pump to refill the tank, with an ultrasonic sensor monitoring the water level in real time. <br><br> Furthermore, the system integrates environmental sensors, including a temperature sensor, solar intensity tracker, and rain sensor for weather monitoring and adaptive control. All collected data is time-stamped and stored by day and hour, allowing the system to analyze user behavior and operational patterns. This data serves as the foundation for future AI-based recommendation features aimed at optimizing energy efficiency, improving security, and simplifying daily management tasks. <br><br> The system's overall functionality can be monitored and controlled through a centralized, user-friendly mobile or web application. Based on user analytics, the app may send intelligent notifications, such as: *"The lights are usually off at this time. Would you like to turn them off now?"* |\
| **6** | **Engineering Standards:** WiFi, GPS, and Bluetooth |\
| **7** | **Design Requirements:** <br><br> The design shall achieve the following requirements: <br><br> 1. The operating voltage for all sensors is between 3 to 5 volts. <br> 2. The sensor's data are sent every 10 minutes (adjustable). <br> 3. The data is stored in time frames and days of the week for the system to learn the environment behavior and user habits. <br> 4. All components should operate within the industrial temperature range -40\'b0C to +85\'b0C. <br> 5. An alert is sent when the water tank level is below 25% of its capacity. <br> 6. An alert is sent when an intruder is inside the coop. <br> 7. The fan is turned on when the temperature is above 30\'b0C and automatically turns off when the temperature is below 29\'b0C. <br> 8. Based on the width of the coop, the coop moves a distance greater than its width by 1 meter (adjustable). <br> 9. Based on the length of the coop, the coop moves a distance greater than its length by 1 meter (adjustable). |\
| **8** | **Realistic Constraints:** <br><br> | **Category** | **Constraint** |\
| | |--------------|----------------|\
| | | Economic | Up to 500 JDs |\
| | | Environmental | Minimum power consumption |\
| | | Manufacturability & Sustainability | Should be scalable and built using available commercial components |\
| | | Other | \'97 |\
| **9** | **Deliverables:** <br><br> | **Item** | **Status** |\
| | |----------|-----------|\
| | | Documentation | Yes |\
| | | Portfolio | \'97 |\
| | | Video | \'97 |\
| | | Other | Google Maps |\
| **10** | **Background of Students:** Communications Engineering, Electrical Engineering, and Computer Engineering Students |\
| **11** | **Number of Students:** 3 students |\
\
---\
\
## Signatures\
\
| **Role** | **Signature** | **Date** |\
|----------|---------------|----------|\
| **Advisor** | Dr. Rami Abdullah Wahsheh | |\
| **Co-Advisor** | | |\
| **Department Head** | | |\
\
---\
\
*Princess Sumaya University for Technology - King Abdullah II Faculty of Engineering*}